
so I am thinking to make a plan help me architech the plan in a better wway for a project I don't know if that will sustain or not or maybe something to launched as complete project and sell it to small banks,  A "a marekting cum CDP platform, small but strong and scaleable. here is my idea.
the idea came by working on SAS + SAS CI360 of direct module, and i want to build something like that or you can say exactly like that but in open technology. I don't if they might blame for stealing,but i am want to build the complete project what we implement with CI360,  here is what i want to do.


project : 
A marketing Automation Tool, to target customers with customize creatives and messages, 
market place 360 : this name is kind of odd suggest if any or maybe we think later after some develapment 



Direct Module:


Right now I am focusing on direct module, based on the data avaialble to us ( keeping in mind that we will work with smaller banks or small agency firms with that they want to send campaigns )

data source connection ( data stream tab) : 

1. platform hosted on cloud that has the capality to connect to any type of data sources,
any cloud db , eg. S3, RDS etc. etc.
2. must have functionality to connect on prem database [ for e.g Like in sas there was on-prem agent that basically connects to information-map, which connects to DB via Libname ]
my suggestion : we keep it like salesforce that has a tab "data streams" that will have connection to any kind of database available over internet, but I don't know how it work in case of on-prem , so seeking your info to design on-prem data architecture.
3. also an interface to create table like structure on the system and in that an a data can be uploaded via API/manual upload which can be used temporarly for campaigns.



Data Model : 

In this tab we will have to provide a way to define the data model, like in data streams if 5 tables are coming in then if we are building a data model, 
we can select the tables from the data streams, and then a place to add relationship between tables, and mark primary keys, if they want to create a new custom columns they we can do that , we they want to change the data type that we should be able to do that, 
so the entire segmentation will be performed on this data model.
backend tech stack and how the backend will work I don't know yet, I want claude help to architech each part. 


Flow tab : 

if customers wants to perform data segmentation that should be possible to perform from a user interface, like user can drop a node  and add filters( select columns from the data model ) and add values then update the count of that node,drop another node and connect previous so that the new query will use the previous node as base table to perform the next step. 
the final node will have option to mark as target segment. all the target segment will have unique id ( TGS1, .. ) and the main map where all these segments are connected which will be called as flow  and it will have unique id which if (FLO1, ..)
user can create one or many flow, so basically these tab will display each flow as list and when we open a flow then it show the waterflow flow that will have different nodes and segments.
to build the  we need to have multiple nodes like filter, and, or , join .
all the filteration will work on the primary keys, means the segments nodes will onyl show counts and when marked as target segment then we will just use those primary keys to built the customer data in campaign data when campaign executed.
any suggestion from your end?

campaign tab: 
In this section we are going to build something called as campaign ( upgraded version of CI360 Direct Task) 
a. user can create new campaign and each campaign will have :
	1. target tab : a place to add the "target segment". ( target tab )
	2. Execution tab -  run now or set a scheduled ( in schdule either one day or rcurring campaign execution, or any suggesiton from your end )
	3. Data tab :  
				1. here we should have option to choose the templates / or design our data selection that is needed for the campaign, 
				2. design from our own : we can add selected columns from the data model
				3. we select from templates, ( we will built a settings tab where there will be section called data templates , there user will select data model and design the template which will be visible in data tab of campaign)
	4. properties tab  : each campaign will generate a unique code when they are created like CMP1, .. and there will be properties tab to fill campaign name, description, and display campaign code.  this properties page will have custom section and can be and can be added additinal custom properties once setup in general settings. ( cannot change the existing properties, change only newly added custom)
	there are more tab but as of now i have to go with this only to ready a prototype then will add other tabs like A/B testing.



Once Campaign Made publish and Run Now from the Execution Tab, there will be a post campaign run job

Note: in my org , i used to write code which are client specific, that multi moduels those were running on on-prem sas server, but in my product i want to do offer this facility on gui/ custoization without writing new codes to other. 
here what i used to do : 
1. load the campaign files because when we run task from sas ci360 it generates a file from with selected columns in csv/sas dataset.
2. there are following  modules in my sas program based on client requirement which i feel common for most of banking/insurance sector and i want them them to be part of my product as facilities that can be added to the job which will run post campaign run meaning on final target segment
	a. Global Exclusions
			e.g. 
			blacklisted customers  
			opt out customer 
			etc. 
			for this what i am thinking :  if the data table is present in data stream not required to be there in data model, then we can join it using primary keys and then find out the valid customer list and intersect the invalid list into a different table, and store in in Error tables with campaing id, and remark.

			so our product will have : 
			user can add mutliple exclusion, table name select from data stream, the condition of the exclusion, and inclusion so that we can perform it directly, it gives them an option to change it future no need to depend on product backend.
	b. communication capping : 
			this is difficult to manage as we might not have the response in our product as many banks have external vendors, 
			but what we need to build is, if the same primary key is part of multiple campaigns of the day then we can remove that customer from the this job.
			I don't know how we will do it, but its like keeping the enitre database, on the machine for each customers, or what we can do is we can create a new column against each customer in data model, to keep track of communication( number of campaigns run)
			and in settings we give an option to add a cap that if this limit is exceeded then that customer is not valid for the campaigns.

3. channels target : 
		this is something very big it depends on the number of channels, they have so as of now we just, export the final data to campaignt as an output. where user can download it in csv.
		well in reality i want to give an option to connect to like SMS/Email vendors, we design the API payload with selected data templates and 
		in campaign tabs we can give option to select channels, it will based on the number of channels cofigured in general settings.
		then when campaign runs, and these post process job runs it will automatically send data to these channels from our backend Job and send an alert to user email that campaign sent to channels. 
		right now we will built using email channels as there are lot of free email channels that offers API. 


This is what My Aim is to built as a hustle project, I don't know if this has a potential to go in market but it will make me stand as or can help  land a very big job or maybe this got clients then I'll improve it. 

Now help me analyze the pain points and drabacks here, help me rewrite every points in proper detail, i know this info not enough at this point but we will first plan it completely architech it then i'll build it.

Me :  I am SAS professional , working on SAS since last 4 years and Customer intelligence 360, building like a almost complete CDP platform.
but i want to get out of the sas now, to picture myself in something big as manager i know absed on number of years it not the right now but I want to try something that i can do. so I am thinking to built this in open source tech, like python and other open things, and also secure ofcourse.



